>>> page 1

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
**SECTION 1. IDENTIFICATION**
Product name
:
CARADOL EP500-11
Product code
:
U1705
Synonyms
:
Polyol
**Manufacturer or supplier's details**
Company
:**Shell Chemical LP**
PO Box 576
HOUSTON TX  77001
USA
SDS Request
:  1-800-240-6737
Customer Service
:  1-855-697-4355
**Emergency telephone number**
Chemtrec Domestic (24 hr)
:  1-800-424-9300
Chemtrec International (24
hr)
:  1-703-527-3887
**Recommended use of the chemical and restrictions on use**
Recommended use
: Use for the manufacture of polyurethane products.
Restrictions on use
:
This product must not be used in applications other than the
above without first seeking the advice of the supplier.
Other information
: CARADOL is a registered trademark of Shell trademark Man-
agement BV.
**SECTION 2. HAZARDS IDENTIFICATION**
**GHS classification in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1200**
Based on available data this substance / mixture does not meet the classification criteria.
**GHS label elements**
Hazard pictograms
: No Hazard Symbol required
Signal word
:
No signal word
Hazard statements
:
PHYSICAL HAZARDS:
Not classified as a physical hazard under GHS criteria.
HEALTH HAZARDS:
Not classified as a health hazard under GHS criteria.
ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS:
Not classified as an environmental hazard under GHS criteria.
1 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 2

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
Precautionary statements
:
**Prevention:**
No precautionary phrases.
**Response:**
No precautionary phrases.
**Storage:**
No precautionary phrases.
**Disposal:**
No precautionary phrases.
**Other hazards which do not result in classification**
none
The classification of this material is based on OSHA HCS 2012 criteria.
**SECTION 3. COMPOSITION/INFORMATION ON INGREDIENTS**
Substance / Mixture
:  Mixture
**Hazardous components**


|  | Chemical name |  | Synonyms |  |  | CAS-No. |  |  | Concentration (% w/w) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Propoxylated Sorbitol |  |  | D-Glucitol, propoxylated |  | 52625-13-5 |  |  | 50 - 60 |  |
| Propoxylated glycerol |  |  | Glycerol, propoxylated (MW 3000) |  | 25791-96-2 |  |  | 40 - 50 |  |


Chemical name
Synonyms
CAS-No.
Concentration (% w/w)
Propoxylated Sorbitol D-Glucitol,
52625-13-5
50 -60
propoxylated
Propoxylated glycerol Glycerol,
25791-96-2
40 -50
propoxylated
(MW 3000)
**SECTION 4. FIRST-AID MEASURES**
General advice
:
Not expected to be a health hazard when used under normal
conditions.
If inhaled
:
No treatment necessary under normal conditions of use.
If symptoms persist, obtain medical advice.
In case of skin contact
:
Remove contaminated clothing. Flush exposed area with wa-
ter and follow by washing with soap if available.
If persistent irritation occurs, obtain medical attention.
In case of eye contact
:
Flush eye with copious quantities of water.
Remove contact lenses, if present and easy to do. Continue
rinsing.
If persistent irritation occurs, obtain medical attention.
If swallowed
:
In general no treatment is necessary unless large quantities
are swallowed, however, get medical advice.
Most important symptoms
and effects, both acute and
delayed
:
Does not pose an acute hazard under normal conditions of
use.
2 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 3

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
Protection of first-aiders
:
When administering first aid, ensure that you are wearing the
appropriate personal protective equipment according to the
incident, injury and surroundings.
Indication of any immediate
medical attention and special
treatment needed
:
Treat symptomatically. Following cases of gross over-
exposure, investigation of liver, kidney and eye function may
be advisable. Records of such incidents should be maintained
for future reference.
**SECTION 5. FIRE-FIGHTING MEASURES**
Suitable extinguishing media
:
Large fires should only be fought by properly trained fire fight-
ers.
Alcohol-resistant foam, water spray or fog. Dry chemical pow-
der, carbon dioxide, sand or earth may be used for small fires
only.
Unsuitable extinguishing
media
:
Do not use water in a jet.
Specific hazards during fire-
fighting
:
Will only burn if enveloped in a pre-existing fire.
Hazardous combustion products may include:
Carbon dioxide
Unidentified organic and inorganic compounds.
Toxic gases
Carbon monoxide.
Specific extinguishing meth-
ods
:
Standard procedure for chemical fires.
Further information
:
Clear fire area of all non-emergency personnel.
All storage areas should be provided with adequate fire
fighting facilities.
Keep adjacent containers cool by spraying with water.
Special protective equipment
for firefighters
:
Proper protective equipment including chemical resistant
gloves are to be worn; chemical resistant suit is indicated if
large contact with spilled product is expected. Self-Contained
Breathing Apparatus must be worn when approaching a fire in
a confined space. Select fire fighter's clothing approved to
relevant Standards (e.g.  Europe: EN469).
**SECTION 6. ACCIDENTAL RELEASE MEASURES**
Personal precautions, protec-
tive equipment and emer-
gency procedures
:
Observe all relevant local and international regulations.
Avoid contact with skin, eyes and clothing.
Avoid inhaling vapour and/or mists.
Extinguish any naked flames. Do not smoke. Remove ignition
sources. Avoid sparks.
Environmental precautions
:
Remove all possible sources of ignition in the surrounding
3 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 4

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
area.
Prevent from spreading or entering into drains, ditches or riv-
ers by using sand, earth, or other appropriate barriers.
Use appropriate containment to avoid environmental contami-
nation.
Ventilate contaminated area thoroughly.
Methods and materials for
containment and cleaning up
:
For large liquid spills (> 1 drum), transfer by mechanical
means such as vacuum truck to a salvage tank for recovery or
safe disposal. Do not flush away residues with water. Retain
as contaminated waste. Allow residues to evaporate or soak
up with an appropriate absorbent material and dispose of
safely. Remove contaminated soil and dispose of safely
For small liquid spills (< 1 drum), transfer by mechanical
means to a labeled, sealable container for product recovery or
safe disposal. Allow residues to evaporate or soak up with an
appropriate absorbent material and dispose of safely. Remove
contaminated soil and dispose of safely.
Proper disposal should be evaluated based on regulatory
status of this material (refer to Chapter 13), potential contami-
nation from subsequent use and spillage, and regulations
governing disposal in the local area.
Additional advice
: For guidance on selection of personal protective equipment
see Chapter 8 of this Safety Data Sheet.
For guidance on disposal of spilled material see Chapter 13 of
this Safety Data Sheet.
**SECTION 7. HANDLING AND STORAGE**
Technical measures
:
Avoid breathing of or direct contact with material. Only use in
well ventilated areas. Wash thoroughly after handling.  For
guidance on selection of personal protective equipment see
Chapter 8 of this Safety Data Sheet.
Use the information in this data sheet as input to a risk as-
sessment of local circumstances to help determine appropri-
ate controls for safe handling, storage and disposal of this
material.
Ensure that all local regulations regarding handling and stor-
age facilities are followed.
Advice on safe handling
:
In accordance with good industrial hygiene practices, precau-
tions should be taken to avoid breathing of material.
Use local exhaust extraction over processing area.
Avoid unintentional contact with isocyanates to prevent uncon-
trolled polymerisation.
Avoid contact with skin, eyes and clothing.
Air-dry contaminated clothing in a well-ventilated area before
laundering.
Do not empty into drains.
Handling Temperature:
4 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 5

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
Ambient.
When handling product in drums, safety footwear should be
worn and proper handling equipment should be used.
Extinguish any naked flames. Do not smoke. Remove ignition
sources. Avoid sparks.
Avoidance of contact
:
Avoid contact with isocyanates, copper and copper alloys,
zinc, strong oxidizing agents, and water.
Product Transfer
:  Lines should be purged with nitrogen before and after product
transfer. Keep containers closed when not in use.
Conditions for safe storage
:
Refer to section 15 for any additional specific legislation cov-
ering the packaging and storage of this product.
Storage period
:  24 Months
Further information on stor-
age stability
:  Prevent all contact with water and with moist atmosphere.
Tanks must be clean, dry and rust-free.
Prevent ingress of water.
Must be stored in a diked (bunded) well- ventilated area, away
from sunlight, ignition sources and other sources of heat.
Nitrogen blanket recommended for large tanks (capacity 100
m3 or higher).
Drums should be stacked to a maximum of 3 high.
Storage Temperature:
Ambient.
Storage should be handled at temperatures such that viscosi-
ties are less than 500 cSt; typically at 25-50 °C.
Tanks should be fitted with heating coils in areas where the
ambient temperatures are below the recommended product
handling temperatures. Heating coil skin temperatures should
not exceed 100 °C.
Packaging material
:  Suitable material: Stainless steel., For container paints, use
epoxy paint, zinc silicate paint.
Unsuitable material: Copper., Copper alloys.
Specific use(s)
:  Not applicable
Ensure that all local regulations regarding handling and stor-
age facilities are followed.
**SECTION 8. EXPOSURE CONTROLS AND PERSONAL PROTECTION**
**Components with workplace control parameters**
Contains no substances with occupational exposure limit values.
5 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 6

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
**Biological occupational exposure limits**
No biological limit allocated.
**Monitoring Methods**
Monitoring of the concentration of substances in the breathing zone of workers or in the general
workplace may be required to confirm compliance with an OEL and adequacy of exposure con-
trols. For some substances biological monitoring may also be appropriate.
Validated exposure measurement methods should be applied by a competent person and sam-
ples analysed by an accredited laboratory.
Examples of sources of recommended exposure measurement methods are given below or con-
tact the supplier. Further national methods may be available.
National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), USA: Manual of Analytical Meth-
ods http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), USA: Sampling and Analytical Methods
http://www.osha.gov/
Health and Safety Executive (HSE), UK: Methods for the Determination of Hazardous Substanc-
es http://www.hse.gov.uk/
Institut für Arbeitsschutz Deutschen Gesetzlichen Unfallversicherung (IFA) , Germany
http://www.dguv.de/inhalt/index.jsp
L'Institut National de Recherche et de Securité, (INRS), France http://www.inrs.fr/accueil
**Engineering measures**
:
The level of protection and types of controls necessary will
vary depending upon potential exposure conditions. Select
controls based on a risk assessment of local circumstances.
Appropriate measures include:
Where material is heated, sprayed or mist formed, there is
greater potential for airborne concentrations to be generated.
Adequate ventilation to control airborne concentrations.
General Information:
Always observe good personal hygiene measures, such as
washing hands after handling the material and before eating,
drinking, and/or smoking.  Routinely wash work clothing and
protective equipment to remove contaminants.  Discard con-
taminated clothing and footwear that cannot be cleaned.
Practice good housekeeping.
Define procedures for safe handling and maintenance of
controls.
Educate and train workers in the hazards and control
measures relevant to normal activities associated with this
product.
Ensure appropriate selection, testing and maintenance of
equipment used to control exposure, e.g. personal protective
equipment, local exhaust ventilation.
Drain down system prior to equipment break-in or mainte-
nance.
Retain drain downs in sealed storage pending disposal or
subsequent recycle.
**Personal protective equipment**
Respiratory protection
:
No respiratory protection is ordinarily required under normal
6 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 7

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
conditions of use.
In accordance with good industrial hygiene practices, precau-
tions should be taken to avoid breathing of material.
Hand protection
Remarks
:
Where hand contact with the product may occur the use of
gloves approved to relevant standards (e.g. Europe: EN374,
US: F739) made from the following materials may provide
suitable chemical protection. Longer term protection: Nitrile
rubber. Incidental contact/Splash protection: PVC, neoprene
or nitrile rubber gloves For continuous contact we recom-
mend gloves with breakthrough time of more than 240
minutes with preference for > 480 minutes where suitable
gloves can be identified. For short-term/splash protection we
recommend the same, but recognize that suitable gloves
offering this level of protection may not be available and in
this case a lower breakthrough time maybe acceptable so
long as appropriate maintenance and replacement regimes
are followed. Glove thickness is not a good predictor of glove
resistance to a chemical as it is dependent on the exact
composition of the glove material. Glove thickness should be
typically greater than 0.35 mm depending on the glove make
and model. Suitability and durability of a glove is dependent
on usage, e.g. frequency and duration of contact, chemical
resistance of glove material, dexterity. Always seek advice
from glove suppliers. Contaminated gloves should be re-
placed. Personal hygiene is a key element of effective hand
care. Gloves must only be worn on clean hands. After using
gloves, hands should be washed and dried thoroughly. Appli-
cation of a non-perfumed moisturizer is recommended.
Eye protection
:
If material is handled such that it could be splashed into eyes,
protective eyewear is recommended.
Skin and body protection
:
Skin protection is not ordinarily required beyond standard
work clothes.
It is good practice to wear chemical resistant gloves.
Protective measures
:
Personal protective equipment (PPE) should meet recom-
mended national standards. Check with PPE suppliers.
Hygiene measures
:
Wash hands before eating, drinking, smoking and using the
toilet.
Launder contaminated clothing before re-use.
**Environmental exposure controls**
General advice
:  Local guidelines on emission limits for volatile substances
must be observed for the discharge of exhaust air containing
vapour.
Minimise release to the environment. An environmental as-
sessment must be made to ensure compliance with local envi-
ronmental legislation.
Information on accidental release measures are to be found in
7 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 8

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
section 6.
**SECTION 9. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES**
Appearance
:
Viscous liquid.
Colour
:  clear
Odour
:  odourless
Odour Threshold
:  Not relevant
pH
:
ca. 9
Melting point/freezing point
:
Data not available
Boiling point/boiling range
:
Data not available
Flash point
:
> 100 °C / 212 °F
Evaporation rate
:  Data not available
Flammability (solid, gas)
:
Not applicable
Upper explosion limit / upper
flammability limit
:
Data not available
Lower explosion limit / Lower
flammability limit
:
Data not available
Vapour pressure
:
ca. 0.003 Pa (20 °C / 68 °F)
Relative vapour density
:
Data not available
Relative density
:
Data not available
Density
:
ca. 1,108 kg/m3 (20 °C / 68 °F)
Solubility(ies)
Water solubility
:
Miscible.
Partition coefficient: n-
octanol/water
:
log Pow: < 1
Auto-ignition temperature
:
> 300 °C / 572 °F
Decomposition temperature
:  < 300 °C / 572 °F
Viscosity
Viscosity, dynamic
:
5.380 mPa.s (20 °C / 68 °F)
8 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 9

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
Viscosity, kinematic
:
Data not available
Explosive properties
:
Not classified
Oxidizing properties
:
Not applicable
Surface tension
:
Data not available
Conductivity
:  Electrical conductivity: > 10,000 pS/m, A number of factors,
for example liquid temperature, presence of contaminants,
and anti-static additives can greatly influence the conductivity
of a liquid, This material is not expected to be a static accumu-
lator.
Molecular weight
:
Data not available
**SECTION 10. STABILITY AND REACTIVITY**
Reactivity
:  The product does not pose any further reactivity hazards in
addition to those listed in the following sub-paragraph.
Chemical stability
:  No hazardous reaction is expected when handled and stored
according to provisions
Hygroscopic.
Possibility of hazardous reac-
tions
:
Polymerises exothermically with di-isocyanates at ambient
temperatures.
The reaction becomes progressively more vigorous and can
be violent at higher temperatures if the miscibility of reaction
partners is good or is supported by stirring or by the presence
of solvents.
Reacts with strong oxidising agents.
Conditions to avoid
:
Heat, flames, and sparks.
Product cannot ignite due to static electricity.
Incompatible materials
:  Avoid contact with isocyanates, copper and copper alloys,
zinc, strong oxidizing agents, and water.
Hazardous decomposition
products
:   Unknown toxic products may be formed.
**SECTION 11. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION**
Basis for assessment
: Information given is based on product testing, and/or similar
products, and/or components.
**Information on likely routes of exposure**
Exposure may occur via inhalation, ingestion, skin absorption, skin or eye contact, and accidental
ingestion.
**Acute toxicity**
9 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 10

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
**Product****:**
Acute oral toxicity
:  LD50 : > 5000 mg/kg
Remarks: Low toxicity:
Based on available data, the classification criteria are not met.
Acute inhalation toxicity
:  Remarks: Based on available data, the classification criteria
are not met.
Acute dermal toxicity
:  LD50 : > 5000 mg/kg
Remarks: Low toxicity:
Based on available data, the classification criteria are not met.
**Skin corrosion/irritation**
**Product****:**
Remarks: Not irritating to skin.
**Serious eye damage/eye irritation**
**Product****:**
Remarks: Not irritating to eye.
**Respiratory or skin sensitisation**
**Product****:**
Remarks: Not a skin sensitiser.
Based on available data, the classification criteria are not met.
**Germ cell mutagenicity**
**Product****:**
:  Remarks: Not mutagenic.
**Carcinogenicity**
**Product****:**
Remarks: Not a carcinogen., Based on available data, the classification criteria are not met.
**IARC**
No component of this product present at levels greater than or
equal to 0.1% is identified as probable, possible or confirmed
human carcinogen by IARC.
**OSHA**
No component of this product present at levels greater than or
equal to 0.1% is on OSHA’s list of regulated carcinogens.
**NTP**
No component of this product present at levels greater than or
equal to 0.1% is identified as a known or anticipated carcinogen
by NTP.
10 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 11

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
**Reproductive toxicity**
**Product****:**
:
Remarks: Not a developmental toxicant., Based on available
data, the classification criteria are not met., Does not impair
fertility.
**STOT - single exposure**
**Product****:**
Remarks: Based on available data, the classification criteria are not met.
**STOT - repeated exposure**
**Product****:**
Remarks: Based on available data, the classification criteria are not met.
**Aspiration toxicity**
**Product****:**
Not an aspiration hazard.
**Further information**
**Product****:**
Remarks: Classifications by other authorities under varying regulatory frameworks may exist.
**SECTION 12. ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION**
Basis for assessment
:  Incomplete ecotoxicological data are available for this product.
The information given below is based partly on a knowledge of
the components and the ecotoxicology of similar products.
**Ecotoxicity**
**Product:**
Toxicity to fish (Acute toxici-
ty)
:  LC50: > 100 mg/l
Remarks: Practically non toxic:
Toxicity to daphnia and other
aquatic invertebrates (Acute
toxicity)
:  EC50: > 100 mg/l
Remarks: Practically non toxic:
Toxicity to algae (Acute tox-
icity)
:  EC50: > 100 mg/l
Remarks: Practically non toxic:
Toxicity to fish (Chronic tox-
:
Remarks: Data not available
11 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 12

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
icity)
Toxicity to daphnia and other
aquatic invertebrates (Chron-
ic toxicity)
:
Remarks: Data not available
Toxicity to microorganisms
(Acute toxicity)
:
IC50: > 100 mg/l
Remarks: Practically non toxic:
Based on available data, the classification criteria are not met.
**Persistence and degradability**
**Product:**
Biodegradability
:  Remarks: Not readily biodegradable.
Oxidises rapidly by photo-chemical reactions in air.
**Bioaccumulative potential**
**Product:**
Bioaccumulation
:  Remarks: Does not have the potential to bioaccumulate signif-
icantly.
**Mobility in soil**
**Product:**
Mobility
:
Remarks: If the product enters soil, one or more constituents
will or may be mobile and may contaminate groundwater.
**Other adverse effects**
no data available
**SECTION 13. DISPOSAL CONSIDERATIONS**
**Disposal methods**
Waste from residues
:
Recover or recycle if possible.
It is the responsibility of the waste generator to determine the
toxicity and physical properties of the material generated to
determine the proper waste classification and disposal meth-
ods in compliance with applicable regulations.
Do not dispose into the environment, in drains or in water
courses
Waste product should not be allowed to contaminate soil or
water.
Disposal should be in accordance with applicable regional,
national, and local laws and regulations.
Local regulations may be more stringent than regional or na-
tional requirements and must be complied with.
12 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 13

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
Contaminated packaging
:
Drain container thoroughly.
After draining, vent in a safe place away from sparks and fire.
Send to drum recoverer or metal reclaimer.
Dispose in accordance with prevailing regulations, preferably
to a recognized collector or contractor.  The competence of
the collector or contractor should be established beforehand.
**SECTION 14. TRANSPORT INFORMATION**
**National Regulations**
**US Department of Transportation Classification (49 CFR Parts 171-180)**
Not regulated as a dangerous good
**International Regulations**
**IATA-DGR**
Not regulated as a dangerous good
**IMDG-Code**
Not regulated as a dangerous good
**Transport in bulk according to Annex II of MARPOL 73/78 and the IBC Code**
Pollution category
:  Not applicable
Ship type
:  Not applicable
Product name
:  Not applicable
**Special precautions for user**
Remarks
: Special Precautions:  Refer to Chapter 7, Handling & Storage,
for special precautions which a user needs to be aware of or
needs to comply with in connection with transport.
**Additional Information**
**:**This product may be transported under nitrogen blanketing.
Nitrogen is an odourless and invisible gas.  Exposure to nitro-
gen may cause asphyxiation or death. Personnel must ob-
serve strict safety precautions when involved with a confined
space entry.
**SECTION 15. REGULATORY INFORMATION**
**EPCRA - Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act**
*: This material does not contain any components with a CERCLA RQ.
**SARA 304 Extremely Hazardous Substances Reportable Quantity**
This material does not contain any components with a section 304 EHS RQ.
**SARA 302 Extremely Hazardous Substances Threshold Planning Quantity**
This material does not contain any components with a section 302 EHS TPQ.
**SARA 311/312 Hazards**
:  No SARA Hazards
13 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 14

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
**SARA 313**
:  This material does not contain any chemical components with
known CAS numbers that exceed the threshold (De Minimis)
reporting levels established by SARA Title III, Section 313.
**Clean Water Act**
This product does not contain any Hazardous Chemicals listed under the U.S. CleanWater Act,
Section 311, Table 117.3.
**US State Regulations**
**California Prop. 65**
This product does not contain any chemicals known to State of California to cause cancer, birth
defects, or any other reproductive harm.
**Other regulations:**
The regulatory information is not intended to be comprehensive. Other regulations may apply
to this material.
**The components of this product are reported in the following inventories:**
AICS
:
Listed
DSL
:
Listed
IECSC
:
Listed
ENCS
:
Listed
KECI
:
Listed
NZIoC
:
Listed
PICCS
:
Listed
TSCA
:
Listed
TCSI
:
Listed
**SECTION 16. OTHER INFORMATION**
**Further information**
NFPA Rating (Health, Fire, Reac-
tivity)
0, 1, 0
**Full text of other abbreviations**
Abbreviations and Acronyms
:  The standard abbreviations and acronyms used in this docu-
ment can be looked up in reference literature (e.g. scientific
dictionaries) and/or websites.
14 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 15

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
ACGIH = American Conference of Governmental Industrial
Hygienists
ADR = European Agreement concerning the International
Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road
AICS = Australian Inventory of Chemical Substances
ASTM = American Society for Testing and Materials
BEL = Biological exposure limits
BTEX =  Benzene, Toluene, Ethylbenzene, Xylenes
CAS = Chemical Abstracts Service
CEFIC = European Chemical Industry Council
CLP = Classification Packaging and Labelling
COC = Cleveland Open-Cup
DIN = Deutsches Institut fur Normung
DMEL = Derived Minimal Effect Level
DNEL = Derived No Effect Level
DSL = Canada Domestic Substance List
EC = European Commission
EC50 = Effective Concentration fifty
ECETOC = European Center on Ecotoxicology and Toxicolo-
gy Of Chemicals
ECHA = European Chemicals Agency
EINECS = The European Inventory of Existing Commercial
Chemical Substances
EL50 = Effective Loading fifty
ENCS = Japanese Existing and New Chemical Substances
Inventory
EWC = European Waste Code
GHS = Globally Harmonised System of Classification and
Labelling of Chemicals
IARC = International Agency for Research on Cancer
IATA = International Air Transport Association
IC50 = Inhibitory Concentration fifty
IL50 = Inhibitory Level fifty
IMDG = International Maritime Dangerous Goods
INV = Chinese Chemicals Inventory
IP346 =  Institute of Petroleum  test method N° 346 for the
determination of polycyclic aromatics DMSO-extractables
KECI = Korea Existing Chemicals Inventory
LC50 = Lethal Concentration fifty
LD50 = Lethal Dose fifty per cent.
LL/EL/IL = Lethal Loading/Effective Loading/Inhibitory loading
LL50 = Lethal Loading fifty
MARPOL = International Convention for the Prevention of
Pollution From Ships
NOEC/NOEL = No Observed Effect Concentration / No Ob-
served Effect Level
OE_HPV = Occupational Exposure - High Production Volume
PBT = Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic
PICCS = Philippine Inventory of Chemicals and Chemical
Substances
PNEC = Predicted No Effect Concentration
REACH = Registration Evaluation And Authorisation Of
Chemicals
15 / 16

>>> pend


>>> page 16

## **SAFETY DATA SHEET**
According to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR
1910.1200
# **CARADOL EP500-11**
Version
2.1
Revision Date:
04/25/2018
SDS Number:
800001008935
Print Date: 09/03/2022
Date of last issue: 05/08/2015
RID = Regulations Relating to International Carriage of Dan-
gerous Goods by Rail
SKIN_DES = Skin Designation
STEL = Short term exposure limit
TRA = Targeted Risk Assessment
TSCA = US Toxic Substances Control Act
TWA = Time-Weighted Average
vPvB = very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative
A vertical bar (|) in the left margin indicates an amendment from the previous version.
Sources of key data used to
compile the Safety Data
Sheet
:  The quoted data are from, but not limited to, one or more
sources of information (e.g. toxicological data from Shell
Health Services, material suppliers’ data, CONCAWE, EU
IUCLID date base, EC 1272 regulation, etc).
Revision Date
:  04/25/2018
The information provided in this Safety Data Sheet is correct to the best of our knowledge, infor-
mation and belief at the date of its publication. The information given is designed only as a guid-
ance for safe handling, use, processing, storage, transportation, disposal and release and is not
to be considered a warranty or quality specification. The information relates only to the specific
material designated and may not be valid for such material used in combination with any other
materials or in any process, unless specified in the text.
US / EN
16 / 16

>>> pend